# Misinformation in video recommendations: An exploration of Top-N recommendation algorithms

## Abstract

With this paper, we delve into the problem of misinformation propagation in the video recommendation domain, focusing on Top-N recommendation algorithms. We evaluate a broad spectrum of recommen- dation algorithms to probe their ability to minimize misinformation recommendations, while optimising the recommendation algorithms for overall performance (NDCG). Three experiments were conducted to investigate the recommendation algorithms’ overall recommendation quality, the prevalence of misinfor- mation in the recommendations, and an exploration of various features of the recommendations. The results indicate that certain recommendation algorithms excel in both performance and misinformation handling, while others struggle in recommending fewer items containing misinformation. Notably, SVD++, nearest neighbour algorithms, Deep MF, and Non-Negative MF demonstrated consistent performance and effectiveness in reducing misinformation recommendations. Conversely, algorithms such as a Field- aware FM, LogMF, and MF showed poor performance in both aspects. The study highlights the need for tailored evaluations of recommendation algorithms to ensure the reliability of misinformation control. The findings emphasize the potential of neighbourhood-based, neural, and other advanced CF approaches in combating misinformation and contributing to more responsible recommender systems. Moreover, we propose future research directions, such as investigating hybrid recommendation algorithms and exploring specific features influencing misinformation recommendations, to further enhance the understanding and effectiveness of mitigating misinformation in recommendation systems.
